---
layout:     post
title:      "You in Southeast Asia"
subtitle:   "Part I: Practical Advice for Backpackers"
date:       2015-12-23
author:     "Erica"
header-img: "img/think/practical/cover.JPG"
category: du
tags: [du, travel]
---

<h3>Get excited because Southeast Asia is just as fucking incredible as everyone says.</h3>

All these buzzwords - "freedom," "adventure" - that mean absolutely nothing on their own will mean something to you. They will mean having to use every language you know and some that you don't to get back home after dark because transportation doesn't work like they should. They will mean trusting locals more than you do google maps, and ignoring 80% of advice from books and blogs (probably including this one).

<h3>Because a lot of people have been asking me, this post will cover practical advice and suggestions for those hoping or planning to go to Southeast Asia.</h3>

<b>I will also post <a href="{% post_url 2015-12-23-itinerary %}" target="_blank">my itinerary</a> for reference.</b>

I hope you guys find this useful in some way, and if you do end up going to Southeast Asia, I'd love to hear about it :)

<h3 class="section-heading">Advice</h3>

<h3>1. Don't plan too much.</h3>
When I first started backpacking, I was a girl prepared. I knew where I was staying. I knew generally what there was to do in each place. I read Hostelworld reviews and Trip Advisor forums. Within a week, I stopped. 

By the time I got to Vietnam, I would show up to a hostel on a fellow traveler's recommendation, ask if there were any beds available and then head out to explore. I would then leave if I was 1) bored and I wanted to check out another city, 2) my visa was expiring and I had to book it out of the country 3) adjusting my travel plans to spend more time with people I met along the way.

I liked travelling like this, but always knew my options so was flexible enough to choose my own destiny, but always had enough plans to not let passiveness take over.

You'll have to find a balance for what you feel comfortable with and what works for you, but I'd challenge you to be more spontaneous than you usually are. You never know who you might meet, which cities you'll fall in love with, where you feel like you could spend an eternity. <b>Don't pre-limit yourself!</b>

<h3>2. Ask like-minded travellers for advice.</h3>
Be prepared to have the same conversation literally over and over again. It's like freshman orientation in that everyone says the same facts about themselves except the stopping point is when you stop travelling. You'll be asked where you're from. How long you've been travelling. Where you've been. Where you're going. 

<b>Take this time to ask for tips!</b>

But don't follow every piece of advice you get. Figure out if you guys have similar interests/vibes and then go from there. In Vietnam, talking to lots of outdoorsy, active people led me to Dalat, Phong Nha, and Sa Pa, 3 of my favorite places in all of Southeast Asia, and caused me to skip over some other cities on the backpackers trail. In addition to asking for things to do, ask for where to stay. Again, gauge the advice based on vibe and if you like them. There are party hostels where you can play as much beer pong as your inner college frat boy desires, and there are swanky, how-is-this-only-$15 hostels for swankier folk. 

I personally liked the homestay type hostels the best, but have definitely stayed in a spectrum. It took me a while to get the hang of taking advice from the right people.

<h3>3. Go solo.</h3>
When do you do things alone? And not like "shower" and "cook dinner." I mean like real world things like go to a restaurant or a movie. If the answer to that is never, than you and I are in the same boat.

Travelling alone might not make too much sense at first. I've gotten a spectrum of questions. Why do you need to cross half the world to be by yourself? You can do that kind of stuff, you know, anywhere. Isn't it scary? Didn't you get lonely?

To answer those questions, 1. no, I actually never got lonely, 2. sometimes did get scared but never felt "in danger," and 3. there's a volume and variety of activity you experience while travelling that is so incomparable to regular life, that being by yourself is a completely different experience.

You gain an impressive amount of skills when travelling alone since you're doing so many new things by yourself at such a high frequency. You have to figure out what <i>you</i> actually want on a daily basis, and actively <i>choose</i> who to spend time with. Above all, you'll gain an increased sense of self and confidence in your own abilities. That sense of empowerment isn't something that disappears when you come back to America - that shit sticks.

<h3>4. General food advice.</h3>
<b>Eat street food, but only where the locals are lining up.</b> Good rule of thumb, if you see locals eating there, it's good. If you see tons of locals, it's probably really fucking good. If you see no locals, but do see tourists, it's probably good but wayyyy overpriced. If you see literally no one, don't eat the food. If you can't read the sign, don't let that stop you! Point and pay. That's pretty universal. (pro-tip Saigon is an awesome city to just walk around and buy street food)

<b>Buy bottled water, just do it.</b> The largest bottle you can without being obnoxious. Hostels will rip you off so try to buy everything at stores, you should be able to get a huge bottle of water for less than $1 everywhere you go.

<b>Raw veg is iffy.</b> Vietnamese food has a ton of raw herbs so be careful, but you don't necessarily need to avoid it altogether.

<b>All the food in Sapa, Vietnam is literal shit.</b> Not sure why. Do not get the fixed menu deals.

<h3>5. Other general advice.</h3>
<b>Keep a travel journal.</b> I have bits of writing here and there but met people with extensive records and was jealous. One girl I met was following her grandpa's backpacking trip off his journal from way back when. Life goals.

<b>Try to bring ca$h and not use ATMs, those fees rack up.</b> In Cambodia, everyone actualy uses $1 bills, so stock up on singles. Otherwise get $100s and bring them with you to exchange money. To give a upper-bound estimate, food will run you $3-5 a meal, accommodation $5-8, $1-2/beer.

<b>Rent a motorbike/moped, just don't go too crazy.</b> You'll see a lot of people get injured and bandaged, it happens. Find a place without too many bikes on the road (like an island), get someone to take time and teach you how to ride it, take a few practice laps first, and wear a helmet. 

<b>Pack as light as possible.</b> I was working 13 kg - which included my laptop and DSLR. If anything, I would've invested in some good hiking shoes, walking shoes, and flip flops.

<b>General First Aid: </b> Valium will help you sleep on sleeper buses. Get the yellow pills in Thailand for motion sickness. Bring some first aid stuff (antiseptics, anti-bacterial ointment), it'll come in handy when you get cuts and they get infected.